*KGALALELO TSHOLOFELO MOGASE*

*ST10448898*

*IMAD ASSIGNMENT 1*

<img src="/media/image.jpg" style="width:3.54167in;height:5in" />

In today's fast-paced world, technology has become an indispensable part
of our lives, shaping various aspects of human existence, including
education and learning. The fusion of technology with historical
exploration opens new avenues for understanding and appreciating the
past. This essay delves into an Android application designed to help the
exploration of historical figures, providing insights into its code
structure, functionality, and implications for historical education.

**Introduction:**

The advent of smartphones and mobile applications has revolutionized the
way we access information and engage with different domains of
knowledge. The intersection of technology and history offers unique
opportunities for individuals to delve into the lives of historical
figures, gaining a deeper understanding of their contributions and
legacies. The Android application under scrutiny serves as a digital
gateway to explore historical figures, allowing users to uncover
intriguing insights into their lives and accomplishments.

**Code Overview:**

The codebase of the Android application is written in Kotlin, a modern
programming language favored by Android developers for its concise
syntax and robust features. The main components of the code include the
MainActivity class, properties such as buttons, text fields, and text
views, and a data class being historical figures.

The MainActivity class serves as the entry point of the application,
orchestrating the interaction between the user interface and the
underlying logic. It initializes the UI elements, sets up event
listeners, and handles user input. The properties defined within the
class help the manipulation and display of data, ensuring a seamless
user experience.

**Functionality:**

The primary functionality of the application revolves around retrieving
historical figures based on user input. Upon launching the application,
users are presented with an input field where they can enter an age.
Upon giving the age, the application searches a predefined list of
historical figures to find any figure who died at the specified age.

The search process involves iterating through the list of historical
figures and comparing the entered age with the age at which each figure
died. If a match is found, the application displays the name of the
historical figure along with their age at death. Conversely, if no match
is found, it informs the user that no historical figure corresponds to
the entered age.

**Implications for Historical Education:**

The Android application holds significant implications for historical
education, particularly in terms of engaging learners and fostering a
deeper appreciation for history. By providing a user-friendly interface
and intuitive functionality, the application enables individuals to
actively take part in the exploration of historical figures,
transcending traditional learning methodologies.

One notable aspect of the application is its interactive nature, which
encourages users to actively search for historical figures and discover
connections between different epochs and personalities. This hands-on
approach not only enhances retention and comprehension but also
stimulates curiosity and critical thinking skills.

Moreover, the application serves as a valuable resource for educators
looking to integrate technology into their history curriculum. By
incorporating the application into classroom activities, teachers can
help immersive learning experiences, allowing students to explore
historical figures independently and collaborate on research projects.

**Documentation of Historical Figures**

1.  **Princess Diana** died on 31 August 1997 in a car crash in the
    [Pont de l'Alma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pont_de_l%27Alma)
    tunnel in Paris while her driver was fleeing the
    [paparazzi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paparazzi).[<sup>\[285\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana,_Princess_of_Wales#cite_note-286)
    The crash also resulted in the deaths of her companion Dodi Fayed
    and their driver, [Henri
    Paul](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_Paul), who was also the
    acting security manager of [Hôtel Ritz
    Paris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H%C3%B4tel_Ritz_Paris). [Trevor
    Rees-Jones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trevor_Rees-Jones_(bodyguard)),
    who was employed as a bodyguard by Dodi's
    father,[<sup>\[286\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana,_Princess_of_Wales#cite_note-287)
    survived the crash, suffering a serious head injury. The televised
    funeral, on 6 September, was watched by a British television
    audience that peaked at 32.1 million, which was one of the United
    Kingdom's [highest viewing figures
    ever](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_watched_television_broadcasts_in_the_United_Kingdom#Most_watched_special_events).
    Millions more watched the event around the world. *Nundy, Julian;
    Graves, David. ["Diana crash caused by chauffeur, says
    report"](https://web.archive.org/web/20021113190313/http://www.telegraph.co.uk/htmlContent.jhtml?html=%2Farchive%2F1999%2F09%2F04%2Fndi04.html).
    The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from [the
    original](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/htmlContent.jhtml?html=/archive/1999/09/04/ndi04.html)
    on 13 November 2002.*

2.  **Winnie Madikizela-Mandela** died at the Netcare [Milpark
    Hospital](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milpark_Hospital) in
    Johannesburg on 2 April 2018 at the age of 81. She suffered from
    diabetes and had recently undergone several major
    surgeries.[<sup>\[115\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winnie_Madikizela-Mandela#cite_note-115)
    She "had been in and out of hospital since the start of the year.
    *[<u>"Anti-apartheid campaigner Winnie Mandela dies, aged
    81"</u>](https://news.sky.com/story/anti-apartheid-campaigner-winnie-mandela-dies-aged-81-11314143).
    Sky News. 2 April 2018.*

3.  [**Martin Luther King
    Jr**.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Luther_King_Jr.), an
    African-American [clergyman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clergy)
    and [civil rights
    movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_rights_movement)
    leader, was fatally shot at the [Lorraine
    Motel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Civil_Rights_Museum)
    in [Memphis,
    Tennessee](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memphis,_Tennessee), on
    April 4, 1968, at 6:01 p.m.
    [CST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Time_Zone). He was
    rushed to [St. Joseph's
    Hospital](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Joseph%27s_Hospital_(Memphis,_Tennessee)),
    where he died at 7:05 p.m. He was a prominent
    [leader](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leadership) of the [civil
    rights
    movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_rights_movement) and a
    [Nobel Peace Prize](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nobel_Peace_Prize)
    laureate who was known for his use of
    [nonviolence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nonviolence) and [civil
    disobedience](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_disobedience).
    Dyson, Michael Eric (2008). ["Fighting
    Death"](https://archive.org/details/april41968martin00dyso). [*April
    4, 1968: Martin Luther King Jr.'s death and how it changed
    America*](https://archive.org/details/april41968martin00dyso) (1st
    ed.). New York City: [Basic Civitas
    Books](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haymarket_Books#Imprints).
    [ISBN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISBN_(identifier))
    [978-0465002122](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0465002122).

4.  **Steve Hawking** died at his home in
    [Cambridge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cambridge) on 14 March
    2018, at the age of
    76.<sup>[\[306\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-ReesNatureObituary-306)[\[307\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-NYT=20180314-307)[\[308\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-Guardian.Death-308)</sup>
    His family stated that he "died
    peacefully".<sup>[\[309\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-309)[\[310\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-310)</sup>
    He was eulogised by figures in science, entertainment, politics, and
    other
    areas.<sup>[\[311\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-NYT-20180314do-311)[\[312\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-NYT-20180314lm-312)[\[313\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-313)[\[314\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-BBC-Memorials-314)</sup>
    The [Gonville and Caius
    College](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gonville_and_Caius_College,_Cambridge)
    flag flew at [half-mast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Half-mast)
    and a [book of
    condolences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_of_condolence) was
    signed by students and
    visitors.<sup>[\[315\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-315)[\[316\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-316)[\[317\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-NYT-20180314db2-317)</sup>
    A tribute was made to Hawking in the closing speech by
    [IPC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Paralympic_Committee)
    President [Andrew
    Parsons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Parsons_(sports_administrator))
    at the [closing
    ceremony](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2018_Winter_Paralympics_closing_ceremony)
    of the [2018 Paralympic Winter
    Games](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2018_Winter_Paralympics) in
    [Pyeongchang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyeongchang_County),
    South
    Korea.[<sup>\[</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Hawking#cite_note-318)

5.  **Frene Noshir Ginwala** (25 April 1932 – 12 January
    2023)<sup>[\[1\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frene_Ginwala#cite_note-1)[\[2\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frene_Ginwala#cite_note-:3-2)</sup>
    was a South African journalist and politician who was the first
    [speaker of the National Assembly of South
    Africa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speaker_of_the_National_Assembly_of_South_Africa)
    from 1994 to
    2004.[<sup>\[3\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frene_Ginwala#cite_note-:4-3)
    She was influential in the writing of the [Constitution of South
    Africa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constitution_of_South_Africa)
    and an important figure in establishing democracy in South
    Africa.<sup>[\[3\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frene_Ginwala#cite_note-:4-3)</sup>
    Ginwala died from complications of a stroke suffered two weeks
    earlier on 12 January 2023, at the age of
    90.[<sup>\[2\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frene_Ginwala#cite_note-:3-2)
    *["President mourns passing of Dr Frene Ginwala, founding Speaker of
    Parliament"](https://www.thepresidency.gov.za/press-statements/president-mourns-passing-dr-frene-ginwala%2C-founding-speaker-parliament).
    The Presidency Republic of South Africa. 13 January 2023.
    [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20230113111425/https://www.thepresidency.gov.za/press-statements/president-mourns-passing-dr-frene-ginwala%2C-founding-speaker-parliament)
    from the original on 13 January 2023. Retrieved 13 January 2023.*

6.  **Aziz Goolam Hoosein Pahad** (25 December 1940 – 27 September 2023)
    was a South African politician and [anti-apartheid
    activist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-apartheid_activist) who
    was [Deputy Minister of Foreign
    Affairs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minister_of_Foreign_Affairs_(South_Africa))
    from 1994 to 2008. He was a member of the [National Executive
    Committee](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Executive_Committee_of_the_African_National_Congress)
    of the [African National
    Congress](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/African_National_Congress)
    from 1985 to 2007. Pahad died on 27 September 2023, just two months
    after his brothers Junaid and Essop. He was
    82.[<sup>\[19\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aziz_Pahad#cite_note-19)

7.  **Albertina Sisulu** died suddenly in her home in Linden,
    Johannesburg at age 92 on the evening of 2 June 2011, while watching
    television with her grandchildren. According to news reports, she
    suddenly fell ill, coughing blood, and paramedics who rushed to the
    scene were unable to revive her. At the time of her death, Sisulu
    was survived by five children, Max, Mlungisi, Zwelakhe, Lindiwe and
    Nonkululeko, her adopted niece and nephew, Gerald and Beryl, and 26
    grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Her family expressed
    their sorrow at her death, but said that it comforted them to know
    that she and her beloved husband of 59 years were no doubt together
    again. *["SA mourns anti-apartheid icon 'Ma'
    Sisulu"](https://web.archive.org/web/20110607203031/http://www.namibian.com.na/news/africa/full-story/archive/2011/june/article/sa-mourns-anti-apartheid-icon-ma-sisulu/).
    [The Namibian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Namibian).
    [NAMPA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NAMPA). 6 June 2011. Archived
    from [the
    original](http://www.namibian.com.na/news/africa/full-story/archive/2011/june/article/sa-mourns-anti-apartheid-icon-ma-sisulu/)
    on 7 June 2011.*

8.  **Steve Biko** died alone in a cell on 12 September
    1977.[<sup>\[141\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Biko#cite_note-FOOTNOTEBernstein19785Mangcu2014262-141)
    According to an [autopsy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autopsy), an
    "extensive brain injury" had caused "centralisation of the blood
    circulation to such an extent that there had been intravasal blood
    [coagulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coagulation), acute
    [kidney failure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kidney_failure), and
    [uremia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uremia)".[<sup>\[142\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Biko#cite_note-FOOTNOTEWoods1978182-142)
    He was the twenty-first person to die in a South African prison in
    twelve
    months,[<sup>\[143\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Biko#cite_note-FOOTNOTEWilson201211-143)
    and the forty-sixth political detainee to die during interrogation
    since the government introduced laws permitting imprisonment without
    trial in 1963. *Whitaker, Raymond (8 October 2003). ["No prosecution
    for death of anti-apartheid activist
    Biko"](http://www.nzherald.co.nz/world/news/article.cfm?c_id=2&objectid=3527718).
    The New Zealand Herald. Retrieved 13 October 2012.*

9.  **Walter Sisulu** died at his home in Soweto on the evening of 5 May
    2003, just shy of his 91st
    birthday,[<sup>\[19\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Sisulu#cite_note-19)
    in the presence of his
    wife.[<sup>\[6\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Sisulu#cite_note-:4-6)
    He was given a "[special official
    funeral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_funeral)" on 17 May
    2003.[<sup>\[20\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Sisulu#cite_note-20)
    Among the tributes he received after his death, Mandela – joking
    that both he and Sisulu "had long passed the age when either of us
    would protest against the brevity of life" – said: *Banda, Chimaimba
    (31 July 2000). ["Sisulus go public with news of Aids
    death"](https://www.iol.co.za/news/politics/sisulus-go-public-with-news-of-aids-death-45404).
    Independent Online. Retrieved 2 November 2022.*

10. **[Mohandas Karamchand
    Gandhi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahatma_Gandhi)** was
    assassinated on 30 January 1948 at age 78 in the compound of Birla
    House (now [Gandhi
    Smriti](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gandhi_Smriti)), a large
    mansion in central [New
    Delhi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Delhi). His assassin was
    [Nathuram Godse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nathuram_Godse), from
    [Pune](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pune),
    [Maharashtra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maharashtra), a
    [Hindutva](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindutva)
    activist,[<sup>\[1\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Mahatma_Gandhi#cite_note-FOOTNOTEHardiman2003174%E2%80%93176-1)
    a member of the [Rashtriya Swayamsevak
    Sangh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rashtriya_Swayamsevak_Sangh)
    (RSS), a right-wing Hindu paramilitary
    organization[<sup>\[2\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Mahatma_Gandhi#cite_note-FOOTNOTENash198169-2)
    as well as a member of the [<u>Hindu
    Mahasabha</u>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindu_Mahasabha).
    Gandhi was carried back into the Birla House, into a bedroom, where
    he died about 30 minutes later as one of Gandhi's family members
    read verses from Hindu
    scriptures.[<sup>\[68\]</sup>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Mahatma_Gandhi#cite_note-74)
    [Tunzelmann
    2012](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Mahatma_Gandhi#CITEREFTunzelmann2012), p.
    320, Quote: "Immediately, there was chaos. As Gandhi was cradled by
    his devotees and carried back to the house, the assassin was seized
    and pummelled by thirty-two-year-old diplomatic officer Herbert
    Reiner of Springdale, Connecticut..

Conclusion:

In conclusion, the Android application is a compelling fusion of
technology and history, offering users a convenient platform to explore
the lives and legacies of historical figures. Through its elegant code
structure and intuitive functionality, the application exemplifies the
potential of mobile technology in enriching historical education and
fostering a deeper understanding of the past.

As society continues to embrace digital innovation, it is imperative to
harness the power of technology to preserve and give historical
knowledge. By using mobile applications and other digital tools, we can
empower individuals to connect with history in meaningful ways,
perpetuating a culture of curiosity, inquiry, and appreciation for our
collective heritage.

REFERENCE LIST
